docs/Maps/Structure.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Structure

:::info

The best way to learn the map structure is by example, which you can find in the SDK plugin.

:::

Your map should follow a certain structure:

```
- Map (Folder)
	- Static (Folder)
	- Dynamic (Folder)
	- PlayerSpawns (Folder)
```

Static geometry should be placed in the Static folder. This folder will be loaded once per map rotation; therefore, parts here should be anchored and unmoving. Parts which do move, like props, items, doors, and other movable objects should be placed in the Dynamic folder - this folder will be reloaded every round. You can follow this through for scripts as well - scripts in the Dynamic folder will be reloaded every round, and scripts in the Static folder will be loaded once per map rotation.

Additionally, maps contain other instances which are auto-generated by the SDK plugin when you publish your map:

| Instance | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Terrain` | The map's terrain. This is generated based on the terrain in the place file you are editing. |
| `Clouds` | The map's clouds. If you have clouds under `workspace.Terrain`, they will be copied here. |
| `LightingSettings` | The map's lighting settings. This will be generated based on the Lighting service, any children will additionally be copied here. |
| `WaterSettings` | The map's water settings. This will be generated based on the Terrain instance. |
| `TerrainColors` | The map's terrain colors. This will be generated based on the Terrain instance. |
| `MaterialVariants` | The map's material variants. This will be generated based on MaterialService; children there will be copied here. |

Commit message:

add attributes to map structure docs

docs/Maps/Structure.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Structure

:::info

The best way to learn the map structure is by example, which you can find in the SDK plugin.

:::

Your map should follow a certain structure:

```
- Map (Folder)
	- Static (Folder)
	- Dynamic (Folder)
	- PlayerSpawns (Folder)
```

Static geometry should be placed in the Static folder. This folder will be loaded once per map rotation; therefore, parts here should be anchored and unmoving. Parts which do move, like props, items, doors, and other movable objects should be placed in the Dynamic folder - this folder will be reloaded every round. You can follow this through for scripts as well - scripts in the Dynamic folder will be reloaded every round, and scripts in the Static folder will be loaded once per map rotation.

Maps also must have certain attributes on the root folder:

| Attribute | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Authors` | string | The map creators. Usually, users are referenced by their username, prefixed by an "@". |
| `Icon` | string | The map's icon shown in voting. This should be an asset string, in the form `rbxassetid://ID`. |
| `Description` | string | The map's description. This is not currently shown anywhere, but it may be used in the future. |
| `DisplayName` | string? | The map's display name. This is shown in voting. If not specified, the root folder name will be used. |

Additionally, maps contain other instances which are auto-generated by the SDK plugin when you publish your map:

| Instance | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Terrain` | The map's terrain. This is generated based on the terrain in the place file you are editing. |
| `Clouds` | The map's clouds. If you have clouds under `workspace.Terrain`, they will be copied here. |
| `LightingSettings` | The map's lighting settings. This will be generated based on the Lighting service, any children will additionally be copied here. |
| `WaterSettings` | The map's water settings. This will be generated based on the Terrain instance. |
| `TerrainColors` | The map's terrain colors. This will be generated based on the Terrain instance. |
| `MaterialVariants` | The map's material variants. This will be generated based on MaterialService; children there will be copied here. |
